---
title: Bilateral Exchange
stub: false
---
The bilateral exchange of the JU is an exchange programme that’s dedicated to students from both full-time and part-time studies and is carried out under the international cooperation agreements concluded by the JU. It offers student exchange to 23 different countries on 7 continents and in total 50 universities to choose from. Bilateral exchange includes short-term departures (up to 30 days, usually to European countries) and long-term departures (up to one year) according to each bilateral agreement. In addition to the standard departures, students can also attend summer schools such as Heidelberg University or Cambridge University. It’s an opportunity to gain unforgettable experiences, acquire language skills and get to know other cultures. Students and doctoral candidates of the JU can apply for the exchange if they meet 3 main conditions: 

1. at the time of applying they’re students of the JU on: 

* 2nd year of the bachelor studies 
* 1st year of the master studies 
* 2nd-4th year of the unified master studies 
* 1st-3rd year of the PhD studies 

2. they have weighted grade point average not lower than 4,00; 
3. they speak the lecture language of the chosen university on advanced level (at least B2, in some cases university may require higher level of proficiency). 

Recruitment for the bilateral exchange is being held twice a year (usually the first term takes place in spring and the additional term does in autumn, however it depends on the university and may vary). In order to apply for the bilateral exchange students must submit cover letter explaining their reasons for departure together with other necessary documents (for example assessment of the year supervisor/promotor/lecturer, certificates of the weighted grade point average of previous semesters or completed language courses, eventually also the certificates confirming student’s activity in student organizations). After submissions a two-stage competition for bilateral exchange is being held. During the first stage a ranking list based on the assessment of the candidates is created. The criteria taken into account are the learning outcomes (weighted average), language proficiency, cover letter and activity in the student organizations or research community. The second stage is acceptance from the partner university. It’s good to mention that after this stage sometimes students have to submit some additional documents requested by the partner university. They usually have time to do this until a deadline set by the university.  

Departure is possible after confirmation from the partner university. What’s important, students are insured by the JU (from sickness and accident costs). People who resign from departures that are assigned to them have to immediately notify DWM UJ (Dział Współpracy Międzynarodowej – International Cooperation Unit of the JU), because it’s impossible to postpone their departure until the following year. Before departure, the student must agree on a mobility programme (study plan) with the partner institution (partner university) and representatives of the JU (supervisor of the year/lecturers). That’s because often during bilateral exchange students must complete courses that have no equivalents in the partner university, but are required on the JU. Students choose their courses on the partner university by themselves, however they have to be consistent with requirements of the JU’s curriculum. Registrations for the courses depend on their availability and conditions set by the host university. Students may suggest alternative versions of the courses taught in Poland, but they have to take into account whether they correspond to the curriculum and the number of ECTS points, which may be reduced if the courses are not consistent with the provisions of the curriculum. The representative of the JU (supervisor of the year/lecturer) is responsible for approving students’ study plan before their departure in order to ensure that the learning outcomes are recognized after return to Poland and students won’t have to re-take some courses.  

JU covers the costs of any tuition fees at the partner university along with the costs of visa (if required), the cheapest travel, insurance and one commuter diet – the other costs are on student. Therefore, once the application for the bilateral exchange has been accepted, students must submit financing agreement (in two copies signed by the candidate) to the International Cooperation Section (Sekcja ds. Współpracy Międzynarodowej) of DWM and exit application (together with the exit declaration) to the International Travel Section (Sekcja ds. Wyjazdów Zagranicznych). Exit applications has to contain all the necessary information, including the costs connected to participating in the bilateral exchange that are covered by the JU (costs of visa, airline tickets or commuter diet). 

Participants of the bilateral exchange are obliged to settle their departure within 14 days from their return. Billing shall be done at International Travel Section (Sekcja ds. Wyjazdów Zagranicznych) of DWM. After completing the bilateral exchange students must send a report on their stay abroad to DWM within 14 days of the end of their stay at the partner university. It has to be written in English and be one page or around 4000 characters long. After returning to Poland students have 14 days to complete their courses in the form previously agreed with the lecturers (that agreement should be confirmed on paper).