---
title: SYLFF
stub: false
---
The Ryoichi Sasakawa Young Leaders Fellowship Fund (SYLFF) was established in 1987. So far 69 universities, inlcuding the Jagiellonian University, and consortia in 45 countries (a total of 88 institutions of higher learning around the world) have received an endowment of  US$1 million from the [Nippon Foundation.](https://www.nippon-foundation.or.jp/en/) 

[The SYLFF institutions](https://www.sylff.org/institutions/)  use the interest generated from their endowments to offer fellowships to promising graduate students in social sciences, humanities and performing arts so that they can pursue studies at their home institutions or abroad (SYLFF at the Jagiellonian University offers fellowships for studies abroad only).  

The term "SYLFF program" is often used to denote the fellowship program, "SYLFF institutions" stands for universities or groups of institutions that have received an endowment and "SYLFF fellows"  refers to more than 16,000  students who have received fellowships.  

The SYLFF Program and other related programs are administered by the Leadership Development of the [The Tokyo Foundation](https://www.tkfd.or.jp/en/):  

[SYLFF Plus](http://www.sylff.org/fellows/) 

Program's objectives 

The program objective is to support education of graduate and doctoral students who possess high potential as leaders in public life. A special emphasis is placed on social dimension and practical implementation of the candidate's project related to the fellowship. 

Fellowships are granted to outstanding candidates in the field of humanties and social studies, as well as in law, economy and management studies. 

The fellowship is meant to encourage learning engagements and projects (such as lectures, seminars, workshops and tutorials) and not just pure research.  

The year of foundation: 1992 

Number of fellowships granted so far: 242, including 5 FMP 

The fund source 

The fund is generated by financial operations carried by the Sasakawa Foundation (now The Nippon Foundation) within the framework of  the Ryoichi Sasakawa Young Leaders Fellowship Fund. 

Annual distribution of interest generated by the endowment 

• SYLFF fellowships for the long-cyle (graduate), second-cycle (graduate) and third-cycle (doctoral) students who want to participate in classes offered by the receiving institution, tuition fees, study program costs, accomodation, travel expenses and participation in conferences related to the study program*: 95% 

• local administrative costs: transportation, office supplies, etc.: 5% 

Fellowship may be used at any foreign institution of higher learning as long [the way it is used](http://www.sylff.uj.edu.pl/procedury-aplikacyjne/wymagane-dokumenty/instrukcje) conforms to the decision made by the Committee. 

[SYLFF Institutions ](http://www.sylff.org/institutions/)are usually very happy to receive SYLFF fellows, though there is no requirement to choose any of them to pursue fellowship. 

At the Jagiellonian University fellowships are granted by [the SYLFF Steering Committee](http://www.sylff.uj.edu.pl/zespol-ds-sylff). 

Fellowship duration: minimum 1 semester, maximum one academic year 

\* The conference you intend to attend must be a part of your fellowship project. You should submit a letter from the conference organizers confirming your active participation in the form of, e.g., delivering a speech, attending a panel discussion, poster presentation or being one of the organizers.  

Qualifications requirements  

Legible applicants should be current students of: 

• 1st-3rd year of doctoral schools, 

• 1st year of master's studies (2nd cycle degree)*, 

• 4th year of a 5-year-masters studies (long-cycle)*. 

\* Successful applicants will be able to use a fellowship in their last year of study. 

Legible academic fields: social sciences, humanities, management sciences, law and economy. 

Past recipients of SYLFF fellowships may reapply. Their applications will be reviewed provided they enclose a report on how they used their previous fellowship. 

Students who have been granted ERASMUS scholarships and/or funds for short term visits under the direct exchange scholarship agreements may apply for a SYLFF fellowship as long as they meet all required criteria.  

Criteria of qualification 

The JU SYLFF Steering Committee evaluates applications of candidates basing on the submitted complete application forms. Individuals whose projects will be highly rated may be invited for an interview. The result of the conversation will be taken into account in the decision making on the candidate's qualification.The following scale will be used: 

a. evaluation of the objectives of the planned project related to the preparation of the master's or doctoral dissertation, taking into account the social dimension of the project (objectives clearly and accurately formulated, clearly identified social dimension of the project): 0-10 scores 

b. evaluation of candidate's activity related to the fulfillment of the leadership role: 0-10 scores 

c. evaluation of previous activities confirming the candidate's participation in research or other student activities: 0-5 scores 

Amount of scholarship and conditions of use 

For the academic year 2022/2023, a maximum of 5 scholarships for the best candidates will be awarded. The amount of the scholarship depends on the amount of funds received in a given year from the Tokyo Foundation, to be divided, and depending on the duration of the scholarship's use by a candidate at a foreign university (on average, around 15.000 USD) 

Scholarships can be used in any institution abroad in accordance with the rules of scholarship funds use approved by the JU SYLFF Steering Committee. 

Member Institutions of the SYLFF network usually welcome SYLFF scholarship holders. However, there is no obligation to choose any of these institutions while applying for the SYLFF scholarship. 

Scholarships are awarded by the JU SYLFF Steering Committee. 

Length of the scholarship: minimum 1 semester, maximum one academic year.