---
title: Rector Scholarship
stub: false
---
The Jagiellonian University Rector Scholarship for students is awarded to top students for the following achievements. 

1. Outstanding results in education (grade point average above 4.00) Note: If the average is less than 4.00, you can still apply for the rector's scholarship; in that case, the average points are not awarded and it is not considered. The student does not have to calculate the average by himself - the secretary’s office is obliged to do it. In addition, the average calculated incorrectly by the registrar’s office is the basis for appealing against a negative decision. 
2. scientific achievements (e.g., presentations at conferences, articles, publications, grants, scientific research, translations, interpretations, scientific competitions) 
3. artistic achievements (e.g., authorship of a work presented at least on a national level (e.g., on national television) or winning a medal in a competition of at least national scope) 
4. Sports achievements (e.g., winning a medal at a particular level of sports competition) 
5. being a laureate of an international olympiad or a laureate/finalist of a central level olympiad (for first-year students). 

Detailed list of achievements considered: <https://bip.uj.edu.pl/documents/1384597/143544756/zarz_78_2019.pdf#page=55> 

A student may not apply for the Rector Scholarship in the following situation: 

* when repeating year 
* when resuming studies 
* when they have already received a master's degree. 
* when they have already received a bachelor’s degree and have taken up a first degree for the second time. 
* when they have a course retake 

Additionally, it should be remembered that, in case of studying in more than one field of study, the rector scholarship may be collected only in one of them. 

However, neither a dean's leave nor a student's leave of absence will disqualify you from applying for the Rector's Scholarship, as it is awarded for achievements during the previous academic year. 

**How do I apply for the Rector’s scholarship?**  

1. Draw up a list of achievements recognized for the rector's scholarship (academic, sports, and artistic achievements). 
2. Collect complete documentation confirming the achievement. 
3. Fill in the application form in the USOSweb system under the tab FOR ALL --> Applications. 
4. Attach scans of all documents collected in pt. 2. 
5. Print and sign the paper application generated by the USOSweb system. 
6. Deliver (in person or by mail) the printed application to the scholarship coordinator - September 20th of this year. 

More information at <https://stypendia.uj.edu.pl/pomoc-materialna/stypendium-rektora>